Ingress and Terminating Gateway docs (#7710)
hashicorp/consul: website/pages/docs/connect/ingress_gateway.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Connect - Ingress Gateways
sidebar_title: Ingress Gateways
description: >-
  An Ingress Gateway enables ingress traffic from services outside the Consul
  service mesh to services inside the Consul service mesh. This section details
  how to use Envoy and describes how you can plug in a gateway of your choice.
---

-> **1.8.0+:**  This feature is available in Consul versions 1.8.0 and newer.

# Ingress Gateways

## Prerequisites

Ingress gateways also require that your Consul datacenters are configured correctly:

- You'll need to use Consul version 1.8.0.

> - Consul [Connect](/docs/agent/options#connect) must be enabled in both datacenters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consul [Connect](/docs/agent/options#connect) must be enabled in the datacenter.
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Connect - Ingress Gateways
sidebar_title: Ingress Gateways
description: >-

>   An Ingress Gateway enables ingress traffic from services outside the Consul

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  An ingress gateway enables ingress traffic from services outside the Consul
```

  service mesh to services inside the Consul service mesh. This section details
  how to use Envoy and describes how you can plug in a gateway of your choice.
---

# Ingress Gateways

-> **1.8.0+:**  This feature is available in Consul versions 1.8.0 and newer.

Ingress gateways enable ingress traffic from services outside the Consul

> service mesh to services inside the Consul service mesh. These gateways act as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
service mesh to services inside the Consul service mesh. They are
```

> an entrypoint for outside traffic and allow users to define what services

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an entrypoint for outside traffic and allow you to define what services
```

> should be exposed and on what port. They allow for defining a set of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
should be exposed and on what port. You configure an ingress gateway by defining a set of
```

[listeners](/docs/agent/config-entries/ingress-gateway#listeners) that each map
to a set of backing
[services](/docs/agent/config-entries/ingress-gateway#services).

Depending on the
[protocol](/docs/agent/config-entries/ingress-gateway#protocol) defined for a
listener, multiple services can be specified for a single listener. In this
case, the ingress gateway relies on host/authority headers to decide the
service that should receive the traffic.

To enable easier service discovery, a new Consul [DNS
subdomain](/docs/agent/dns#ingress-service-lookups) is provided, on
`<service>.ingress.<domain>`.

## Prerequisites

Ingress gateways also require that your Consul datacenters are configured correctly:

- You'll need to use Consul version 1.8.0.

> - Consul [Connect](/docs/agent/options#connect) must be enabled in the datacenter.

Reviewer 2: Can we be more specific? Connect needs to be enabled on the servers and gRPC on all agents (I think).

Reviewer: Yep, expanded on this.

- [gRPC](/docs/agent/options#grpc_port) must be enabled.

> Currently, Envoy is the only proxy with ingress gateway capabilities in Consul.

Reviewer 2: It might be nice to link out to an Envoy download page.

Reviewer: Linking to Envoy's home page now, since it has a prominent download button as well.

## Running and Using an Ingress Gateway

> The steps that need to occur for an Ingress Gateway to proxy traffic to services in the Consul mesh are as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must complete the following steps to configure an ingress gateway to proxy traffic to services in the Consul service mesh:
```

> 1. Run an envoy proxy using the [envoy subcommand](/docs/commands/connect/envoy), specifying the `ingress` gateway type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Start an Envoy proxy using the [envoy subcommand](/docs/commands/connect/envoy), specifying the `ingress` gateway type.
```
Would it make sense to provide an example?

Reviewer: Updated the link in `envoy subcommand` to lead here: https://deploy-preview-7710--consul-docs-preview.netlify.app/docs/commands/connect/envoy#ingress-gateways

Or do you think the example should be shown on this page?

Reviewer: Added an example

> 2. Create an `ingress-gateway` [configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create an `ingress-gateway` [configuration
```

Eng style guide recommends against ordered lists 1, 2, 3

entry](/docs/agent/config-entries/ingress-gateway) that defines a set of listeners that expose the desired backing services.
The config entry can be applied via the [CLI](/docs/commands/config/write) or [API](/api/config#apply-configuration).

> 3. Ensure that [intentions](/docs/connect/intentions) are setup between the ingress gateway service and the backing services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Ensure that [intentions](/docs/connect/intentions) are setup between the ingress gateway service and the backing services.
```
Recently, I've started specifying Consul intention for clarity. Also it seems like we're using three terms for ingress gateways, "ingress gateways", "ingress gateways service", and "ingress gateway proxy". Maybe at the beginning of this doc we can explain that an ingress gateway is a type of proxy and must be registered as a service in Consul? Then moving forward just call it an ingress gateway.

Reviewer 2: The detailed config section below is great for helping users understand ingress gateways as a proxy and the service registration requirments. I definitely think a more concise version at the beginning would be helpful.

> 4. **Optionally** use the `<service>.ingress.<domain>` [DNS subdomain](/docs/agent/dns#ingress-service-lookups) to discover the ingress

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Optionally** use the `<service>.ingress.<domain>` [DNS subdomain](/docs/agent/dns#ingress-service-lookups) to discover the ingress.
```

gateways for a service.

## Ingress Gateway Configuration

> Ingress gateways are defined very similarly to other typical services, with two exceptions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ingress gateways are defined similarly to other services registered with Consul, with two exceptions.
```

> The first is that the [kind](/api/agent/service#kind) must be "ingress-gateway". The other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first is that the [kind](/api/agent/service#kind) must be "ingress-gateway". Second, 
```

> is that a ingress gateway service definition may contain a `Proxy.Config` entry just like a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the ingress gateway service definition may contain a `Proxy.Config` entry, just like a
```

> Connect proxy service to define opaque configuration parameters useful for the actual proxy software.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Connect proxy service, to define opaque configuration parameters useful for the actual proxy software.
```

to a set of backing
[services](/docs/agent/config-entries/ingress-gateway#services).

Depending on the
[protocol](/docs/agent/config-entries/ingress-gateway#protocol) defined for a
listener, multiple services can be specified for a single listener. In this
case, the ingress gateway relies on host/authority headers to decide the
service that should receive the traffic.

To enable easier service discovery, a new Consul [DNS
subdomain](/docs/agent/dns#ingress-service-lookups) is provided, on
`<service>.ingress.<domain>`.

## Prerequisites

Ingress gateways also require that your Consul datacenters are configured correctly:

- You'll need to use Consul version 1.8.0.
- Consul [Connect](/docs/agent/options#connect) must be enabled on the datacenter's Consul servers.
- [gRPC](/docs/agent/options#grpc_port) must be enabled on all client agents.

Currently, [Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/) is the only proxy with ingress gateway capabilities in Consul.

## Running and Using an Ingress Gateway

You must complete the following steps to configure an ingress gateway to proxy traffic to services in the Consul service mesh:

> 1. On a dedicated host for the gateway, start an Envoy proxy using the [envoy

Reviewer 2: In the user interviews, did anyone ever get confused about "dedicated host". Do you think it's clear that the host still needs a Consul client?

Reviewer: That bit is new, we added it because there was no guidance around what node to deploy it in. The pre-requisites state an agent is needed, but we could work that in here as well.

Author: I wonder whether this clause is a little bit too prescriptive? Thinking about it now, you don't actually need a "dedicated host" to run the gateway.

Author: New wording seems good to me!

subcommand](/docs/commands/connect/envoy), specifying the `ingress` gateway
type:
    ```shell
    $ consul connect envoy -gateway=ingress -register -service ingress-service \
      -address '{{ GetInterfaceIP "eth0" }}:8888'
    ```

2. Create and apply an `ingress-gateway` [configuration entry](/docs/agent/config-entries/ingress-gateway) that defines
a set of listeners that expose the desired backing services. The config entry can be applied via the
[CLI](/docs/commands/config/write) or [API](/api/config#apply-configuration).

> 3. Ensure that [Consul intentions](/docs/commands/intention) are setup between the ingress gateway and the backing services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Ensure that [Consul intentions](/docs/commands/intention) are setup to allow communication between the ingress gateway and the backing services.
```
Would it be more accurate to say, "allow communication from the ingress gateway to the backing services" , since intentions are not bi-directional.

Reviewer: Yeah, changed that

4. **Optionally** use the `<service>.ingress.<domain>` [DNS subdomain](/docs/agent/dns#ingress-service-lookups) to discover the ingress
gateways for a service.

## Ingress Gateway Configuration

> Ingress gateways are defined similarly to other services registered with Consul, with two exceptions.

Reviewer 2: I almost want to update this to say something like "Ingress gateways are defined in service configuration files and registered with Consul like other services, with two exceptions."

Reviewer: I like it. Updated.

Reviewer: Actually, thinking about this again, services don't need to be registered in files. So the original version is a bit more accurate.

Author: Could just remove the word "files", I think that would still make sense.

Reviewer: Flipping this to be "Ingress gateways are configured in service definitions and registered with Consul like other services, with two exceptions."

Removing "files" since gateways are typically not going to be registered with files. The CLI command will auto-register them. Also the new wording mirrors the wording here: https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/services.html#service-definition

1. Run an envoy proxy using the [envoy subcommand](/docs/commands/connect/envoy), specifying the `ingress` gateway type.
2. Create an `ingress-gateway` [configuration entry](/docs/agent/config-entries/ingress-gateway) that defines a set of listeners that expose the desired backing services.
3. Ensure that [intentions](/docs/connect/intentions) are setup between the ingress gateway service and the backing services.

> 4. **Optionally** use the `<service>.ingress.<domain>` [DNS subdomain](/docs/agent/dns#ingress-service-lookups) to send requests through the ingress gateway

Reviewer: What if instead this was something like:

```suggestion
4. **Optionally** use the `<service>.ingress.<domain>` [DNS subdomain](/docs/agent/dns#ingress-service-lookups) to discover the ingress gateways for a service.
```
